# portfolio
My corpus consists of different playlists representing three different genres namely; chicago drill from the early 2010s, UK drill which was heavily influenced by chicago drill artists and NY drill which has had great recent success. These three playlists representing different eras' of drill music will allow me to uncover their musicological differences. The production and beats of each of these genre's differs and I hope my research will help produce some answers in a more a data orientated and technical sense. The accents will be interesting to analyse as each of the genre's derive from various geographical locations with different cultures.

New York drill tends to be more energetic and loud compared to UK drill which is definitely still agressive but in a more controlled manner. Chicago drill was the first to establish drill music. I hope to find out what the founding musical elements are of this specific genre, this will allow me to create a historical and geographical comparisons with its newer counterparts; UK and NY drill. Some artists might have elements that are more similar to one genre vs the other. It will be interesting to see who has influenced who? Wether this was identified mainly through vocals or production. I expect UK and NY drill to be more similar to each other than Chicago Drill and the other two. This is mainly because NY drill songs were mainly using UK beats at the start. UK and NY drill are also newer and have more modern production styles.

Some artists I intend to analyse are Chief Kief, Lil Reese, Fredo Santana, Lil JoJo, Loski, M24, OBF, Pop Smoke, Fivo Foreign, Sheff G.
